2023 Q1 Team Experiments OKRs (#4828)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/small-teams/experimentation/objectives.mdx

### Objective: Improve developer experience for creating and deploying flags

* **Rationale:**
     * Feature flags is a high friction feature. Unlike adding a snippet or simple line to track an event, engineers and product owners need to plan for their product to work with the flag on and off. 
     To fully enable engineers to build with feature flags, we should make it remarkably easy to create flags.
 

> - **Key Result:** Increase in number of organizations that implement their first feature flag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Key Result:** Double the number organizations per month that implement a feature flag
```

- **Key Result:** Reduction in time spent between creating a feature flag and receiving the first event
    
Possible avenues:
- Auto detection of feature flags being sent that don't have a corresponding flag in posthog and easy creation (like github asking for branch to PR)
- API Enablement. Create experiments or feature flags using posthog API.
- Better hook and time to deployment with feature flag creation when someone lands on the feature flag page
- JSON flags, feature flag resiliency

### Objective: Understand similarities between users throughout posthog

* **Rationale:**
     * Help engineers stay focused on building. Give them as close to the answers and insights as possible with ample proof and dropoff points for further exploration.
 
- **Key Result:** Internal discoveries around different segments of users and groups
- **Key Result:** 80% max satisfaction rate on new features deployed

 Possible avenues:

> - Cohort correlation. What are property and behavioral similarities between users in this cohort

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Cohort correlation](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues/7875). What are property and behavioral similarities between users in this cohort
```

- Experiment correlation. What are property and behavioral similarities between successful and failing variants

### Objective: Nail feature analysis

* **Rationale:**
     * We have internal power users on the growth team who actively find value in deploying with experiments. Making the act of quick insights for features seamless sets us up to deliver an opinionated workflow

- **Key Result:** Our growth team is able to ship and draw conclusions painlessly on every feature being tested
- **Key Result:** Number of experiments with significant results completed by organizations

Possible avenues:
- Complete visibility into who's seeing a flag enabled feature. See recordings connected with users
- Clarity around how users are bucketed in experiments. How do release conditions relate to control vs variants and how do variant overrides relate to those?

> - Experiments UX (pushed from last Q)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Experiments UX](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues/10426)
```

### Objective: Increase deployability of Feature Flags

* **Rationale:**
     * Feature flags is a high friction feature. Unlike adding a snippet or simple line to track an event, engineers and product owners need to plan for their product to work with the flag on and off. 
     To fully enable engineers to build with feature flags, we should make it remarkably easy to create flags.
 

> - **Key Result:** Activation rate of users using flags by 20% (Base metric TBD)

Reviewer: What metric do we care more about as "activation"?
(1) No. of orgs adding their first feature flag
(2) No. of users adding their first feature flag
(3) Time to fully set up a feature flag (see below)

My preference is 1, but it's a good idea to start measuring 3

> - **Key Result:** TBD

Reviewer: An interesting metric to measure here, but probably too specific as a key result, is the time from when the person clicks "new feature flag" until we register for the first time in the code. No idea what 'good' looks like here. 15 minutes, a day, a week?

    
Possible avenues:

> - Auto detection of feature flags being sent that don't have a corresponding flag in posthog and easy creation (like github asking for branch to PR)

Reviewer: Can this also be done the other way around? Auto-detection when a flag is set up in PostHog, but there is no corresponding flag in the code (anymore)?

> - API Enablement. Create experiments or feature flags using posthog API.

Reviewer 2: This is possible today, isn't it?

- Better hook and time to deployment with feature flag creation when someone lands on the feature flag page

> - Less related but important: JSON flags, feature flag resiliency

Reviewer 2: Since this was sort-of the main focus of what we want to do, I'd tweak the OKR a bit to incorporate this in:

Improve developer experience for creating and deploying flags

### Objective: Understand similarities between users throughout posthog

* **Rationale:**
     * Help engineers stay focused on building. Give them as close to the answers and insights as possible with ample proof and dropoff points for further exploration.
 

> - **Key Result:** Internal discoveries around different segments of users and groups

Reviewer: Also good point from @jamesefhawkins in our session on Monday to investigate whether correlations on insights are currently useful + being used

> - **Key Result:** Internal discoveries around different segments of users and groups

Reviewer: As a metric/goal for this, we should set up a similar dashboard and aim for a similar user satisfaction

- **Key Result:** 

 Possible avenues:

> - Cohort correlation. What are property and behavioral similarities between users in this cohort

Reviewer 2: A more fleshed out issue: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues/7875

- Experiment correlation. What are property and behavioral similarities between successful and failing variants

### Objective: Nail feature analysis

* **Rationale:**
     * We have internal power users on the growth team who actively find value in deploying with experiments. Making the act of quick insights for features seamless sets us up to deliver an opinionated workflow

> 

Reviewer: Because you asked for metrics Eric: I don't think this objective is directly measurable, but long-term, improvements like this should increase experiment retention

- **Key Result:** Our growth team is able to ship and draw conclusions painlessly on every feature being tested
- **Key Result:** TBD

Possible avenues:
- Complete visibility into who's seeing a flag enabled feature. See recordings connected with users
- Clarity around how users are bucketed in experiments. How do release conditions relate to control vs variants and how do variant overrides relate to those?

> - Experiments UX (pushed from last Q)

Reviewer 3: Top things I'd like to have, in no specific order:
- Edit the experiment after it starts
- Restart the experiment (pause, edit, restart)
- See full insights of secondary metrics (and why only 3?)
- Change the metrics without restarting the experiment
- Easily create an insight filtered by the current feature flag, with a breakdown for all variants
- Easily edit the feature flag from the experiment page

I'm sure @raquelmsmith has a ton more :D

> ### Possible Objective: Direct SQL Querying

Author: Realistic options IMO: if this is an objective, only pick 1 other objective above. If not, then some extent of all 3 could be approached.

context: https://github.com/PostHog/product-internal/pull/395/files
